#  Virtual Yield for Accounting Schema (VYAS) Research and Library Management Android Application and Bibliophile Companion
## Abstract
This project presents the Virtual Yield for Accounting Schema (VYAS) application, which yields a virtual schema upon accounting the users’ books and research highlights through cloud-based real-time categorizing, cataloging, and citing web pages and resources. It allows users to navigate web pages to perform research and highlight important text, store highlights in projects and access web pages from where the highlights are stored via its URL, keep track of the books they own, lend the aforementioned books, receive personalized book recommendations, and keep track of the currently reading books. The application is built using Android Studio supported by Firebase’s Authentication, Machine Learning ToolKit (MLToolKit), Real-Time Storage, and Cloud Storage.
## Introduction
Virtual Yield for Accounting Schema (VYAS) is a Research Management application integrated with Library Management and Bibliophile Companion. This is a fully cloud-based application that allows users to keep track of all the books that they own. The user can also lend books from their library, receive books that have been lent and mark the books currently being read. Apart from functioning as a Library Management System, this application also serves as a research companion. It enables the user to keep track of all of their highlights from different projects. As a function of the Bibliophile Companion, the application gives a personalized recommendation based on the books present in a user’s library. VYAS has been developed for the Android Operating System with its backend that is built by using Firebase. Android devices have been targeted as more than a million new Android devices are activated worldwide every day. Currently, it constitutes the largest global market share for Mobile & Tablet Operating systems of 72.83% [1]. The Android SDK is used to develop applications for the Android Operating System. Android applications upon development are sold and hosted on platforms such as Google Play, Mobango, SlideME, F-droid, Opera Mobile Store, and the Amazon Appstore. In this paper, we have used Firebase as our database since it is very popular with Android.  Firebase is a web application platform that helps developers build high-quality applications and stores data in JavaScript Object  Notation (JSON) format which doesn’t use a query to insert, update, delete, or add data. VYAS is not only a personalized Home Management Application but is also integrated with a Research Management System and Bibliophile Companion. Unlike traditional Library Management Systems, it helps users keep track of all of their books and research highlights in one place. Using this application, the user is not forced to look for a myriad of standalone applications and can find everything required for their use under one application.
